About This Game
Great for people that like collecting great games of all kinds, this one is the last PC retro Ascii graphics game!

Great for people learning the English language, by having fun, use a screen scanning translator or have your parent nearby!

Great for educators of the English language in a fun way to learn, so they learn the game at the same time!

Great for people that like programmatical games and easy to follow code:

      We have visual basic 6 easy to follow code, use vb6 or twinBASIC to compile.

      We have event triggers on text matching from the screen.

      We have building commands for Administrators/Lords of the game.

There is so much more keep reading !!!


City of Ages Code: Safari [56000+ Epic downloads at steampowered as of 2017-2025+]

[framework Visual Basic + 80% SQL Transactions + Win 11 vbDLLs approved by Microsoft]

=======================================================================

Edger Allen Poe was paid a pizzly sum by todays monies with full rights purchased away from him for less than two hundred dollars. The Raven by Edgar Allen Poe was declared a masterpiece in ITS OWN RIGHTS.

This is my Masterpiece and I hope people play TextCraft with the code more often. Welcome to a different form of gaming, a poetic one. Enjoy a true floating port technology server with a built in game server that is HARDENED from port noise, its SQL-Server (console command driven) and its own mitigation server (anti DDOS attacks) and all yours for FREE. If you are trying to learn english, this is a great game, you just need to find your screen reader that can translate different languages. Most screen readers are for the visually impaired and are available on the internet, search for mud screen readers.

This is the most advanced 2.5 Dimensioned RPG ever developed and will continue development, and it saves on your graphics card because it doesn't need one. You can play other games while playing this game, and we all like to do that as we wait for graphical games to launch our 3D virtual playgrounds. City of Ages' game design is similar to top graphical games of the same concept, some laptops do not have a graphical card, here is a text variation to toy with. This game also has Artificial Intelligence built right into the server code. City of Ages' game will slowly offer you mini games while you play, Egg you on for fights the next time you log in and many more AI-like features!

Our finished client allows you to make macros, edit buttons, you have timers that repeat any command including your Attack target commands [no grind no beating on your keyboard required], or use timers to practice your spells FOR YOU, does the word IDLE game mean anything to you all? Yes it DOES! Many like games they can play all at one time, your PC game is running, your mobile game is running, idle games are fun for this reason!

Its a really great different type of game we have bitmap graphics you can tweak, its TEXTCraft really. This type of game is a great addition to a collector's game list!

Play it, I MADE IT!

Pranks: (designed to promote the game in a more immersive way)

Realm Ghost (he will scare you but the ectoplasm left behind has its own worth)

Pouncing (some mobs in the realm, mostly Dragons will come out of nowhere and pounce on you, you win a learn point by this to offset its stun)

Different Classes can kill more in a short period of time or you get deeply tired, not just movement tired, its deep boned tiredness. (prevents heavy botting as well)

Escapes to prevent damage to the player:

FLEE command

Automatic Emergency Beam out for Captains with a crew and a true flying Starship

Camouflaged / Invisibility / Sneak away

Just moving fast with Numlock pad found to the right of the keyboard

HOUSE command, this is our only purchase or event winning prize to players

Magic Words

Half damage spells

Amour can absorb twenty five percent more damage

Immersive Points - Main Activities:

System Auto clans players and does many more automated action-items for you!

Mimics are a heavy part of our system; during an eclipse drop an object [from a pentagram] with a mimic identified on it and then exorcise them!

Our game is incredibly intricate this way. MAP command if you care to see

where you are going, now with a realm weather report

Heavy and Advanced EMOTE system which brings in all your pet emote

commands into one easy to use command

New Years, Halloween, Azzie Day and other event days have

celebrated emote especially at City of Ages Centre

FACTIONS are most important to use for thieves or player warn paths to

prevent sickness from other factions you are not matched with.

COLONISTS, beam them around the realm to fight for you, SS command

Alien Abduction extremely rare quest, drop a lollypop on them to win

Starships in a true X Y Z in a Universe of Ages

- ride your starship to the Guarding x y z locations, spend fuel for Crowns of Glory

different damage causing or healing or static Nebulas

Black Plague looms!

Healing Myst prevails!

I ask you, are you more of a Thief or are you a Guard at heart

all player classes can steal at different costs

We have slaying weapons and now more to slay with:

Missile weapons and Arcane kinetic bolts can slay anything in the realm,

with Guard quests and Object hunts we took some grind out of RPG this way.

Crafting: (graet news, no leveling required, full access to the forge and crafting system)

Spell Crafts which you learn from TEACHERS of the realm to convert one item into a more useful one for crafting

Craft Transmute tables, put a few items into the mutator and poof new item

FORGE command with easy to earn crowns of glory, items rare on their own as well

Fast Tracking:

Way-stones to travel you far and fast lie everywhere

MARK n RECALL as standard issue commands

Stargates back n forth to a true Solar system x1 y1 z1 to destination x2 y2 z2

City of Ages has four parapets with Way-stones

Magic Words ie. say musho poiet

AREA command

LOCATION command

Door Games:

Armageddon

SHOWTIME

Guess Word

Surprises from Sanded Beckon Birdy Portraits

Arcade game Packmon

Morphs: [some morphs have their own reserved emotes ie. FANG for Vampyre]
WITCHLOCKE [is a new triggered morph when lazy or playing a thief too hard]

Vampyre

Werewolf

Plantform

Cyborg

...also many poof animal transformations

Puzzles:

Levers, Passwall spells, you can do almost anything to short-circuit your Adventures and still win
Merge cards
Ankh ring, one ring does rule them all

Quest Engines:
(besides the standard give quest item to npc we have)

Capture the Clan Flags (when held you are open to PvP)

Oracle personal assigned level appropriate quest

Chase the object

Chase the npc

Tornado SMACKDOWN from SCRYing

random Thief chests

atmoz-death-roulette REVENGE ON HIGH LEVELS

the GURU

random GUARDING quest

Artificial Intelligence Boosted:

Auto-Clan system, no need for an immortal to run the mud anymore, GO AI !!!

Thief code

Guard code

RAID mobs

Hunting Mode

Gambling:
Very well done Stock Market on the Red Planet

True Roulette wheel
Horse racing simulation
Marble City miniCasino
portable Dice and Deck of Cards

Pets:

Emote to or pEmote control your pet or Evolve and level your pets.

can Disarm traps now

Dragon Breath on enemies now

Emotes:

For Role-play we have advanced EMOTES for you and your mountable pets.

Gameplay:

You begin your adventure with medieval weapons including cross/bows/slings and bolts/arrows/and rocks, and move slowly into modern weaponry. There are machineguns/hand phasers and ammo. Starships are fully loaded with weapons/shields and mines, use them as a house or beam down to just about any location in the realm. Stock-market, Golfing [its hilarious to golf grenades around the realm], Stargates, Starships, tons of different types of Quest engines, like our infamous ARMEGADDON system quest. As well as normal types of quests, and many built-in Door games. Door games include, a Mini-Casino, a real to life Roulette game, a fun Horse Racing game, one playable Arcade game, GUESS WORD, Dice, and a Deck of Cards. For Role-play we have advanced EMOTES for you and your mountable pets. The creatures of the realm go on city Raids, and will eventually mark you as a bounty over time and then they will try to catch you off guard. Then heck, cause more trouble, go capture all the clan flags for better gains, steal flags from each other!

Great for those new to Mudding and especially those that played Internet MUDS, and BBS Door games. We have an exact unique identifier system, as well as a perception machine to intice you to read areas with pictures matching by words. This MUD also allows you to link/import your own pictures and sounds, which is not included, for you to find and optionally create. There are loads of free pictures and free sounds found on the web. One of the windows will not work if Graphical User Interface exact mode status is set to [GM off].

Note about Scaremode: SM [ON/OFF/STATUS]: Toggles your scaremode for those that want to chill more, the idea was to keep you moving around the map, invisibility and sneak prevented special-nearby mobiles from falling into hunting mode (and still does), it was the main reason for SNEAK command being movement oriented as opposed to duration timeout based. This is now optional.

The MUD is fully finished and fully programmed to automatically run your quests for you.

Happy Hunting!

Technical Details

Graphical User Interface Design:
Here are special commands a future graphical client someone could make, would require:
FM ON OFF STATUS (Filter-mode reduces unnecessary text that screen readers cannot decode to read) [see also: config combat -/+]

GM ON OFF STATUS (graphics detailed mode using system GUIDs)

SM ON OFF STATUS (scaremode if special-nearby mobiles will randomly aggressive you)

DD shows the day description, night is shown too if not the same, with zoom mode

MAP

XXX

BATTLESTATUS tracks all mobiles attacking you or after you - such as raid mobs

AC/HR/DR/NAR/SLAY

FACTION DATA

ATMOZ

PETS

OBJECTS

MOBS

PLYR rx ry rz facing-graphics-id this is controlled by your client, run alone for the complete necessary room report on players

SCAN

LOCATION

AREA


* New commands to try:

When SLEEPing try to DREAM and get a guard quest

Do not nightmare, you may experience the learning points of the Black Plague!

What was that about learning a point to train with?

Its a quest too, just an annoying one. Even bad stuff in the realm leads you to water.

- SCRY (creates a tornado item and a few pentagram items)

- CHAIN and BOLT attack commands

Tip: Make a druid orc or mage orc to try all three!

Special Command(s

Lon Loff to line feed up a line

Server and Client use a true X,Y,Z coordinate system giving real depth to the stage view 2.5 Dimensional viewable Mudding environment.

Windows 11 and Windows 2019 Server, both easily installed Access 97 sr1 and Visual Basic 6 sr6.

With the City of Ages Client which also comes with this product: You can change the telnet ip address under Tools -> Port.

Now you can remote in on your friends City of Ages Server or place your server such as the server farm: ovhcloud

Blowtorch or bMudclient for Android, their free code is out too

I included blowtorch compatible mage.xml druid.xml blowtorch works fine if you export your changes to your profile triggers buttons

Mudrammer or Mudmaster for iOS

Never tried this telnet client to make any defaults

Join 100s of MUD players at redditz group: /r/MUD

DefCON detects for lag coming from hardware troubles and is an auto reboot system, so test your servers prowess by boot running from your StartUp folder.

Thanks to free AI Imaging Art we will be providing all the new art for our entire game for FREE, because its free to me your Immortal of this game.

Filter toggle mode: Visually impaired may use screen readers, and permanent CONFIG for Area and Combat on or simplified modes.

You are being Matched/or NOT from the server: The coaServer allows use to each person with three character connections using coa client>Tools>Run another Instance of the coaClient, however you can then be shown to everyone else online who your new characters are. This is to reveal to everyone whom is who, prevents salty people from having too much fun.

Supportive Languages: Microsoft Visual Basic 6, and twinBASIC

twinBASIC is a modern implementation of the classic Visual BASIC (VB Access) programming language, designed to provide 100% backward compatibility with existing VB6 and VBA projects. It aims to serve as a complete replacement for the VB6 IDE and compiler while introducing numerous enhancements and new features. This project is actively under development and offers a preview version for users to explore and contribute feedback. It is particularly useful for developers looking to modernize their VB6 or VBA projects without losing compatibility.

Huge thank you to Rochester, Washington state for 23 years of beta testing. SteveH RichieV NateD

AFTER 2037 anyone can use and make money from this server, I am however allowed to make money any time I want. I am hoping to learn Unity or hire a programmer for the 3D mobile side.

Happy text hunting !